---
type: description
---
Continuous deployment strategy aims to reduce time between coding and deploying the code on the production server for actual use by customers. Here we describe some of the main challenges of quality assurance when software development is seen as a continuous process like continuous deployment, and where bringing in knowledge on quality from other sources like operations can help pinpoint where to focus effort. Software systems now operate in very complex environments – battling for shared resources (i.e. web servers, network use), differing environments (operating system platforms, various web browsers and even browser versions) or changing environments (network access while on the move) – and this gives rise to a whole new set of problems as well. 

Key to creating a successful application is to understand and make use of knowledge of operations. Knowledge from operations is pivotal to understanding and quantifying problems within the client/applications landscape. Operations should become an integrated part of development and provide statistics, pinpointing where to focus effort in a large list of change requests and bug reports. Focus lies on automating as much as possible of the release, QA and operations processes, but in order to do this one needs knowledge of all these factors. Hence they must cooperate. This forces developers to gain a clearer understanding of the operational constraints of the system, and at the same time it gives operations insight into what it being made and can make the necessary preparations.