---
type: description
---
Process improvement represents the proactive QA approach, which is used to increase the likelihood of success in the upcoming projects. In practice, the goal is to optimize the process and product quality in order to avoid the most typical software defects and development failures. Similarly than the reactive QA approach, this goal divides into automated analyses and expert judgements. The automated analyses help to express the most typical types of software defects and development failures. Instead, the expert judgement helps to explain why software defects are done and what are the main problems causing the development failures. The topic of process improvement is closely related to organizational knowledge covering the sub­topics of individual knowledge, team knowledge, organization knowledge, and company knowledge.

Process improvement is about controlling re­occurring problems in the product or process. That requires the detection of the re­occurring problems. Otherwise, if not detected, problems are not known, which means that the software organization is not fully capable to learn from their failures. There are data analysis techniques which can be automated. Pareto analysis can be conducted after the project in order to determine the types of the most common defects (e.g. usability defects). Respectively, in terms of process quality, similar approach can be used to reveal the most common types of failures (e.g. lack of condition coverage). The results from Pareto analyses could also be combined with Artificial intelligence, e.g., genetic algorithms, which can be used to teach new “problem patterns” for the prediction models. Such problem patterns, i.e., the problems that occur commonly and simultaneously, can be further validated with the expert judgement increasing the reliability of the prediction models.  

Determining the problems of software product and process does not always require the use of automated analyses. Expert judgement analyses including Post­mortem analysis, Root cause analysis and Maturity models analysis have also been shown to be valuable and lightweight for such a need. Questionnaires can also be used in order to learn from the project stakeholder whether they considered the project as a success or a failure, and what product and process