---
title: Changing our behaviour with metrics
type: flyer
---
Metrics can be used to change employees' behaviour. For team level metrics, it is especially important to get the metrics without unnecessary delay, preferably in real-time, to enable team to genuinely feel the status and react to problems. Respectively, technical debt board can be used to make developers fix and avoid code quality problems. Measuring the number of automated test steps can change team's behaviour to write more unit tests. Metrics can also prevent harmful behaviour such as cherry picking features that were most interesting to the team. Measuring work in progress (WIP) and setting WIP limits prevents cherry picking by enforcing working on only a few features at a time per team, and preventing developers using time on lower priority, but more interesting or easier tasks.

Metrics use can also have negative effects on the development organization. For example, using a simple and one-dimensional metric, such as a velocity metric alone can lead to cutting corners in implementing features to maintain velocity with the cost of quality. Similarly, it needs careful consideration what are selected as the KPI metrics, because it will inevitably change people’s behaviour toward the measured indicator. For example, if the number of defects found in system testing is used as a KPI for the team in order to improve testing effectiveness, the team will most probably report more defects, but it does not necessarily mean better testing–in worst case it can lead to number of small irrelevant findings and duplicate reports.